Okay, the date is the 25th of May, the time is one o'clock and here we are joined by...
Jeff the Mencap!
Yep, and your name?
My name is Tom Hemmings.
Yeah, and your name?
Georgina Hemmings.
Georgina Hemmings?
Yeah.
Welcome Tom and Gina.
Yep.
So you guys are brother and sister?
Yes.
Yeah.
And you attend Chepstor Mencap?
Okay, so if we start with you Tom.
Yes.
Can you tell us a little bit about what you do here at Chepstor Mencap?
I'm hoping we've been at the shop on the 13 mornings.
So you volunteer at the shop?
Yes.
Yeah?
Is that something you enjoy doing?
Yes.
So that's your job then?
Yeah.
What do you do at the shop?
I'm like selling stuff, being out, putting up clothes, put the cubes on.
The shop had a change around and people like it.
So you say a change around, they're having a kind of a reshuffle are they?
Yeah.
A revamp?
Mmm.
Nice, have you been involved in that?
Yes.
So have you given some, had some decisions on when things are gonna go?
Mmm.
Yeah.
Nice, that'd be good then.
Yes.
What about you Gina, do you ever work at the shop?
Yeah, on a Tuesday.
On a Tuesday?
Yeah.
What do you do at the shop?
Help.
You help?
Can you tell me a bit about what you do?
Yeah.
I put the books on the shelf.
You put the books on the shelf?
Yeah.
What else do you do?
Do you save the customers?
Yeah.
Yeah?
And do the customers nail you and talk to you?
Yeah.
Where they come in?
So who do you work with at the shop?
Elaine.
Elaine?
You get on well with Elaine don't you?
Yeah.
That's nice, so that's one of the jobs you guys do at Cheshire Catfire?
Also I do, on a Tuesday, after, afternoons I do the ups, I go on a
Tuesday I do what?
Oh you volunteer at?
Yeah.
Mumbacher upside down?
So they upcycle furniture and different things don't they?
Yes.
Nice, what do you do over there?
I'm, like I'm serving, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm serving customers, like, clean tables
and stuff, and I do the washing up, I do loading the putting things away, put stuff more in,
and we do start closing down on the kids in the boat half way.
Yeah.
We start cleaning, boxing in things down we do.
That's good, so you also do other work on a Tuesday don't you?
Yes.
Where else do you do that?
I don't, I don't do it at Time Driver anymore, I don't, I don't, I don't do it.
You do the pop-up, I was talking about the pop-up cafe.
Yeah.
That's why, you volunteer at that as well.
Yes.
So where do we host the pop-up cafes?
At the, at the, the board school.
Is that something you help with as well, do you know?
I've not done it.
You haven't done it?
No.
No, is it something you'd like to do?
Yeah.
Do you know what Tom does at the pop-up cafe?
Yeah, I only clean up.
You want to clean up?
Yeah.
Well that could be something you could do then, if we could arrange it.
I think it's because it's not on a day that you come here.
Ah right, okay, but sometimes you pop in to see your brother, don't you?
Yeah.
When he's working.
I think, Gina.
Yeah.
What day do you go to the shop and board?
Tuesday.
Ah, there we go.
That's why.
So you're working at the shop when Tom's in the pop-up cafe?
Yes, I forgot, because I'm out on a Tuesday.
So tell me more about the pop-up cafe, Tom, and what do you do here?
I'm serving, all cleaning, I do clean, get the dirty mugs, take them into the kitchen,
put in, being to wash up, or putting in the dish washer.
Yeah.
I do.
So you do kind of like a waiter and a chef.
Yes.
And a bit of everything.
Yeah.
So I've also noticed on the photos, the pop-up cafe, you've got a lot of people who are working
at the shop.
Yes.
How do you decorate it?
Does it change all the time?
Yes.
Yeah?
I do my money on Facebook.
You saw it with mum on Facebook?
You look on Facebook.
Yeah.
And you see the photos.
So Gina.
Yeah.
You work at the shop.
And Tom works at the pop-up and the shop.
What do you work at?
The shop.
Yeah.
What do you do?
I do the cleaning.
And Tom works at the pop-up and the shop.
What do you like?
I do everything.
What do you like about meeting the customers?
Yeah.
Do you like meeting the customers?
And why do you like it?
Because I do it every Tuesday.
And so do you see people quite often?
Are they regulars?
Yeah.
And have you got to know their names?
And in turn, have they got to know your name?
Yeah.
You're quite popular in Bournemouth.
Everyone knows you if I'm coming in the shop.
Yeah.
You give them a warm welcome.
So if I was a customer coming into the shop.
Yeah.
And I said to you, I'm going to a party and I want to wear something smart.
What would you show me in the shop?
Party stuff.
The party stuff?
Yeah.
So do you sell?
Party stuff.
Like smart clothes and suits and stuff like that?
Yeah.
Nice.
And I've heard, if I'm not sure.
Yeah.
Do you take up a treat for Elaine every Tuesday?
What treat do you take her?
Cake.
Cake?
Every Tuesday.
Do you make the cakes?
Well I can't believe that.
Yeah.
I was making...
You make a cake and you take it up for you and Elaine.
Yeah.
Well that's very kind and a lovely thing to do at the beginning of your shift.
That's really good.
So I think that both of you have been coming to Chepstow Man Cap for over five years.
Yeah.
And do you want to say where you moved from?
From the Bristol.
From Bristol.
We moved from...
I knew it.
From...
In the big house now.
From Bristol to Chepstow.
Right.
And you brought...
Your mum and dad brought a house in here.
Yeah.
Yes.
Mummy brought me up this morning.
She did.
And your mother brought you in today.
So who lives in your house?
Mummy, Mummy, Dad.
Your mummy and dad?
And who else?
And...
Chep.
Chep lives at home as well.
Yes.
So Gina, do you want to say who Seb is?
My...
My baby Sebby.
He's your baby.
Chep.
Brother.
That's right.
Yeah.
So you love Seb, don't you?
I adore Sebby.
You adore Seb.
How wonderful.
Yeah.
Seb comes to a lot of our events, doesn't he?
Yes.
I remember the last time we seen him, I think, was at the quiz.
Yeah.
You brought our...
Brought like a...
Like...
You get the fish...
Fish and chips from...
From the ship.
From...
Keybees.
I...
I know that...
I know the...
Be-voday.
You knew, yes.
So...
Gina's that.
One of the quiz questions was...
Do you remember talking to him?
Who...
We played a piece from the Four Seasons.
Yeah.
And Gina, you got it right for your turn.
Who was it?
Who was it by?
I don't know.
Four Seasons by...
Well...
Vivaldi.
Vivaldi, that's it.
Mine was blown when you got that.
And mine.
Because I didn't recognise it was Vivaldi.
No one in the room did.
I think you were the only person who knew who it was.
Yeah.
And then you got it right for your turn.
Someone else said...
Yeah.
You and Tom that knew it was Vivaldi.
And that's because...
Yeah.
We've talked about what you do at Chapstam in the past...
And we might go back to that...
Yeah.
I get a friend from the show ...
In...
Today, the ...
That country show...
On June the 130th game.
again the fashion show yeah yeah so you just said you returned your letter today yeah so you're
gonna take part in yeah so that's something you're looking forward to yes yeah yes yes
yeah
the way you wouldn't believe was that one of the songs no i think she was saying a month then
say that again no the videos are gone my videos are gone
your videos have gone off your head yeah well we can make new memories yeah so we were just saying
about how you knew it was how how do you know the dance again and the dance again but so i think
jina wants to talk about the fashion show is that what you mean yeah well let's talk about the
fashion show yeah yes yeah so you mentioned you you brought your letter in yeah for the next fashion
show yeah can you remember the last fashion show we had yeah in in but been fun but fun
at the bed but it was at the rugby club was it the rugby club yes the rugby club can you remember
what the theme was the wood was it was bollywood yeah so we celebrated uh bollywood and indian
culture indian culture yeah food and dance yes what what type of things did we do that evening
oh
i got down can you remember the main the main outfit you wore can you remember what that's called
a skirt it's like a skirt but it's called a sari sorry and they're beautiful colors
yes and who did we have perform with us
yeah sarah was there um it was you right um do you remember the indian dancers that came and did a
dance with yeah yeah um do you remember the fashion show we did before that yeah with the
well yeah that's right remember what they're called
motorbikes motorbike motorbikes yeah it was a motor well kind of like a biker gang
rock and roll themed fashion show yes because we were sponsored by by what they call the hogs
oh yeah
but the one event yeah
do you remember they were in black t-shirt yeah yeah and you had wings when it was carnival
carnival carnival yeah that was a good night and you all got up and you danced yes we had the
steel drum band there as well didn't we yeah
the motorbike yeah we had a motorbike in the room didn't we that was the start of the fashion show
yeah it's very loud but cool
so what else would you like to talk about um
last time when we when we wasn't here we were at the the old we were at the old barkley center
we were before we were at the board school yeah yeah
yeah what do you remember from being at the barkley um like um
um like remember we had we did a dance on a on a Friday we had had gone like um before um
before um before um we we did a dance member um um what's the song called can we remember
uh was it the we've done a few dances over the years all the way for different performances
the ones i remember hawaiian roller coaster ride i remember doing that one yes yeah yeah yeah
no
yes 50 years on it
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
so were you there at that celebration yeah what did we do on that day um like um doing the mug
mugs out yeah you had a mug to uh to remember the event didn't you yes and we had a big party
didn't we yes with uh gold was the theme gold the theme yeah the color that we have um
yes celebrate 50th anniversary yes so 50 years of chapstone ink yeah and you guys have experienced
at least five of it yeah so what did you do before you came to chapstone men cup because
what did you do in bristol i go shopping for
uh packing up my stuff yeah packing up my was there a center or a charity that you used to go
to in bristol yeah
say peters hospice in in the in westbury
saint peters hospice i know what this is about you served in the charity yeah and the charity was
saint peters hospice which is a bristol-based charity yeah and it was because you worked in
yeah we knew that both of you would like to work in a house yeah yeah
so that's the church as well yeah was the church something to do with that um
um i am um like
like when or when or when bd was um was um playing the playing the organ then people come
come from the the um the um the music people like coming to
do so who can you explain to us who who bd is bd was um a um organist and a cry
choir master and is that your grandfather yeah yes okay can you tell us a little bit about him
yeah i've heard you speak about him before yeah so you said he was a choir master yes and played
the organ as well yeah wow so did you watch him before yeah um yes um
like on on the friday night bd always have a choir choir practice on the friday night
um yes and did you used to attend that yes did you sing no no you just watched him play the organ
um like um like like um on the friday night bd all bd used to was run to run through the the um the
hymns for sunday bd um bd used to play um like doing the um bd bd can't be
playing can't be down just all after he can't don't
can't have them be down down so putting the hymn numbers or all also like
i understand that when bd was doing the organ yes i believe tom yes just like you were saying
yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
yeah yeah but also
yes
happened. Where did BD go to play?
He went to St Peter's.
Yes, but didn't he go to London? Did you all go to London?
I went to...
Oh, yeah.
...the Royal Court, which was incredible.
Wow.
Mm.
And was that something to do with the television program?
Yeah.
The big...
...pros...
Yeah.
What a lovely thing to do...
...that we invited you.
Yeah.
That's quite incredible.
Yes, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So basically, Tom...
Yeah.
...I think they would call you...
Yes.
...a sidesman at the church.
Did you just hand out anything to people?
Yes, I'm like giving the...
...like giving the...
...notices to...
That's right.
Yes.
You like the notices?
Yeah.
Did you help in the church at all, Gina?
I went and did the service.
You went...
Mm-hmm.
I went to the service.
Shh.
You speak up a little bit, mate.
I went to the service.
You were a server?
Yeah.
What did you serve?
I did the candles.
Oh, you did the candles.
Lovely.
Yeah.
And did you enjoy doing that?
So it sounds as if...
Yeah.
...the church...
...I presume it was every week...
Yeah.
...and it sounds as if you...
...really enjoyed doing that.
Yeah.
Yes.
Okay.
And is that where your love of music came from?
Yeah.
Yes.
Doesn't your mother play some instruments as well?
I'm clarinet.
My mum used to play the...
...clarinet.
Clarinet?
Yeah.
And?
Yes.
I've just remembered.
Yeah.
What does your father do with music?
Drum.
Drum study.
Yeah.
A drummer?
And what type of band is he in?
Jazz band.
Jazz band?
Yeah.
Jazz band.
That's cool.
Yeah.
Oh, wow.
So your parents are pretty cool.
Yeah.
Do you guys play any instruments?
No.
No?
You've got a good singing voice though, haven't you?
Yeah.
Nice.
You're a musical family then.
Yes.
That's lovely.
But you like listening to music.
Yeah.
We saw a brass band the other day, didn't we?
Brass band.
Yeah.
He was there.
I was there and who was it and where was it?
In the whole street.
Whole center of Chepstow.
Chepstow High Street.
Yeah.
So what was the band playing for?
The soldiers.
Soldiers.
Soldiers, yes.
The rifles parade.
Yeah.
Rifles parade.
So that was one of our social evening activities.
Yeah.
Yes.
We all went to watch the rifles.
Mommy and daddy were there.
Yes.
Mom and dad went down to watch as well.
Yeah.
Where did we go afterwards?
I went to see the weather spoons.
We did for a couple of pints.
Yes.
It was nice.
I think it was quite a nice evening.
Yes, it was, yeah.
And what did you drink, Tom?
Well, a beer.
Two pints of beer.
Yeah.
Yes.
I'm drinking my prongies today.
Right.
That's okay.
Yeah.
So you had two pints of beer.
Yes.
It sounds like a jolly night out.
We have some good fun on the night out.
We do, don't we?
Yes.
So what other nights do you do with Mencap?
What else have you been to?
I've been to the river bank twice.
Today I went to the river bank.
Into the river bank?
Yeah.
Today?
And you're coming next week, aren't you?
Yes.
We're going to have a barbecue evening, then.
If we got nice weather, that should be good.
Yeah.
Which means, how much is it?
How much is it?
Three pound each.
Yeah.
Which means we can get some snacks, food, a couple of drinks.
Yes.
Where from?
Tesco.
Yeah.
Well, we went over the road.
So the other night, we all went out together as well, didn't we?
Yeah.
Do you remember to the restaurant?
Where was the restaurant we went?
Judy and Diana came.
Yeah.
Judith and Diane came, didn't they?
Yes.
Was it the Piercefield?
Piercefield, yes.
Yeah.
Can you remember what you guys had?
Did you have a bar snack?
I can remember what Tom had, because I was envious.
You had a beautiful rump steak.
Yeah.
Oh, it looked so good.
Yes.
I had gamond.
You had gamond, didn't you?
Yeah.
So yeah, you guys quite like going out to eat, don't you?
Yes.
And you do quite often.
Yeah.
I'll tell you, in the evening, that I thought was rather different.
Yes.
Yeah.
I don't know if both of you were there, but did you go to circus school?
Yes.
That's on a Monday.
That's right.
Yeah, we joined the community circus girls, didn't we?
Yes.
So did you enjoy that?
I thought it was great fun.
Yeah.
What, so tell us what you did at that event.
I was spinning the plates.
Spinning plates?
Yeah, you were great at that.
You kept it up there for at least five minutes.
Yeah.
I can believe it was still going.
I was doing, pulling the...
Yeah, so what Tom's showing us now is the action of pulling the sheet
underneath the dinner set, wasn't it?
Yeah.
So you did the quick pull of the dinner cloth.
Tablecloth, that's the one.
Yeah.
And did they all smash on the floor?
No, you nailed it, didn't you?
Yeah.
And we had to go juggling, didn't we?
Yes.
And what else did we try?
We tried a bit of poi, flag spinning.
It was good fun, wasn't it?
Yes.
So what else have you guys done with us in the evenings?
You come quite often, don't you?
Yeah.
Make some...
The hatchers.
Say that again, sorry?
The hatchers we made.
I mean...
The...
Like, Chipped Bundy.
The hatchers...
Me?
Do you know what Tom means, mate?
Yeah.
Can you tell me?
Making cookies.
Ah, cookies, yes.
We had some cooking sessions, didn't we?
Yes.
We had a bacon session.
Yeah, so we made cookies last time, didn't we?
Yes.
Which turned out lovely.
What did we make the time before?
Can you remember what we cooked the time?
Um, the hatchers.
Is it fajitas?
Yes.
Yeah, yes.
I thought that's what you meant.
Yeah, fajitas.
We had a Mexican night.
Yes.
So we're all in the kitchen, prepping, cooking.
Yeah.
Eating it together.
So yeah, we get up to lots in the evenings, don't we?
Yeah.
Okay, battery's running low, so we're going to pause there, all right?